the international court of justice or
icj has been the United Nations top
judicial body since
1946 its main role is handling disputes
between countries not individuals and
its decisions are legally binding but it
also offers legal advice to the United
Nations despite being dubbed the world
Court the icj's role is more limited
than the name suggests it can only
resolve disputes if the countries
involved have recognized its
jurisdiction the court has 15 judges
elected by the UN General Assembly and
Security
Council it's led by us judge Joan
Donahue a former State Department
official her Deputy is Judge kill
gorgian former Russian ambassador to the
Netherlands they all represent different
regions and legal systems and it looks
like
this three seats are occupied by African
judges justices from Latin America and
the Caribbean hold two seats and another
three are held by Asian judges Western
Europe and other Western countries
occupy five and judges from Eastern
Europe hold to if a country involved in
a case doesn't have a judge from its
region on the bench it can appoint a
temporary one for that case according to
the UN Charter the judges perform their
duties individually not as
representatives of their home countries
the court has heard 193 cases including
disputes over land and Mari borders and
genocide in this hearing 52 countries
and three international bodies will make
submissions on the legal consequences of
Israel's occupation of the Palestinian
territories there are more participants
than in any other case in the icj's
almost 80-year
history the court is expected to deliver
its advisory opinion before the end of
the year rulings are nonbinding but
carry significant moral and legal
Authority
Bernard Smith
alaz make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from
aler